1 ADMISSIBILITY

I. The applicant and the respondent have standing to appear before the African Court.
The African Commission is entitled to submit cases on behald of individuals, (Fn: Article 5(1)(a) of the African Court Protocol) and is therefore qualified to bring the present case before the African Court. Furthermore, all claims were introduced before the African Commission by Rights Without Borders within the prescribed time limits.(Fn: Rule 63(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the African Commission)

II. The African Court has jurisdiction to hear the present matter.
There are three main questions that the applicant brings before this court. With respect to the first issue concerning jurisdiction, the African Court has the power to determine questions as to its jurisdictional competence under Article 3(2) of the African Court Protocol. With regards to the remaiing three issues concerning the detention of persons at Paradise Detention Facility, the validity of the decision to refuse to register NUGAL and the validity of the decision not to abolish the trokosi custom; the court's stated jurisdiction extends to all cases and disputes submitted to it concerning the interpretation and application of the Charter, the African Court Protocol and any other relevant Human Rights instrument ratified by the States concerned, and Kuntakinte has ratified the African Charter, OAU Refugee Convention, African Children's Charter, African Women's Protocol, IDP Convention, and, initially, the African Court Protocol. Later Kuntakinte purportedly withdrew exending the jurisdiction of the African Court by Presidential declaration on the 4th May 2016, promulgation of national legislation on 17th May 2016 and by subsequent formal communication to the Chairperson of the African Commission. There is no provision in the African Court Protocol regulating the withdrawal from the Protocol, and as such the general rule of treaty interpretation set out in Article 56 of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties is of persuasive value, although Kuntakinte did not accede to it: "¶1 A treaty which contains no provision regarding its termination and which does not provide for denunciation or withdrawal is not subject to denunciation or withdrawal unless: (a) it is established that the parties intended to admit the possibility of denunciation or withdrawal; or (b) a right of denunciation or withdrawal may be implied by the nature of the treaty. ¶2 A party shall not give less than 12 months' notice of its intention to denounce or withdraw from a treaty under ¶1."
It is posited that, as a unilateral statement undoing Kuntakinte's voluntary act acceding to the jurisdiction of the African Court, Kuntakinte's enactment of legislation as well as the formal communication to the Chairperson of the African Commission (does/ does not?) constitute a valid withdrawal from the African Court Protocol.
It is posited that withdrawal under the African Court Protocol is (permissible/impermissible?) because unilateral acceptance can lead to a valid revocation, in line with the consensual basis of international human right law and treaty law. Withdrawal from a declaration is also different from withdrawal from a treaty. Where withdrawal from the African Charter and the African Court Protocol would be very difficult depending on the justification under international law, the position in respect of a withdrawal under article 24(b) of the African Court Protocol is distinguishable from withdrawal from an entire treaty (Fn: cf Case of Rwanda's withdrawal from individual complaints procedures, Victoire Ingabire and other associated cases).
It is further posited that the implications of a withdrawal is neither retroactive nor retrospective. Even if a withdrawal is valid, it does not affect cases that have already been submitted in that they cannot be excluded from the Court's jurisdiction. The African Court will therefore be competent to deal with the various cases pending before it and can make binding decisions, including orders of compensation or reparation (to be distinguished from recommendations of the African Commission). For future cases, however, assuming that the withdrawal is valid, Kuntakinte effectively (does/ does not?) exclude jurisdiction of the Court in respect of all cases referred to it by the Commission, however, the Commission itself may may recommendations to Kuntakinte. The Commission's mandate is quasi-judicial and therefore its recommendations are not legally binding, thus States are not compelled to abide by its recommendations.  

III. All elements of the applicant's claim are admissible.

